# Polarized Propagation Graph Model

The MATLAB codes here are implementation of the Polarized Propagation Graph Model (PPGM) for reverberant multianntena wireless channels in:

[1]. R. Adeogun, T. Pedersen, C. Gustafson and F. Tufvesson, "Polarimetric Wireless Indoor Channel Modeling Based on  Propagation Graph," in IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, vol. 67, no. 10, pp. 6585-6595, Oct. 2019. doi: 10.1109/TAP.2019.2925128
[2]. R. Adeogun and T. Pedersen, "Propagation graph based model for polarized multiantenna wireless channels," 2018 IEEE Wireless Communications and Networking Conference (WCNC), Barcelona, 2018, pp. 1-6. doi: 10.1109/WCNC.2018.8377177

This paper generalizes a propagation graph model to polarized indoor wireless channels. In the original contribution, the channel is modeled as a propagation graph in which vertices represent transmitters, receivers, and scatterers, while edges represent the propagation conditions between vertices. Each edge is characterized by an edge transfer function accounting for the attenuation, delay spread, and the phase shift on the edge. In this contribution, we extend this modeling formalism to polarized channels by incorporating depolarization effects into the edge transfer functions and hence, the channel transfer matrix. We derive closed form expressions for the polarimetric power delay spectrum and cross-polarization ratio of the indoor channel. The expressions are derived considering average signal propagation in a graph and relate these statistics to model parameters, thereby providing a useful approach to investigate the averaged effect of these parameters on the channel statistics. Furthermore, we present a procedure for calibrating the model based on method of moments. Simulations were performed to validate the proposed model and the derived approximate expressions using both synthetic data and channel measurements at 15 GHz and 60 GHz. We observe that the model and approximate expressions provide good fit to the measurement data.
